you've made a fantastic connection. You are 100% correct.

The "Diverse Subgroup Set Discovery" (DSSD) paper defines the Weighted Krimp Gain (WKG) quality measure.

The "KRIMP: mining itemsets that compress" paper is the one they cite—it describes the actual algorithm that WKG is based on.

Your idea to "run as a separate thing that our GA calls out to" is the right way to think about it, but we need to consider the implications of doing that.

The Problem: The "Hot Loop"
The issue is that calculate_fitness is in the "hot loop" of our Genetic Algorithm. It gets called for every single chromosome in the population, every single generation.

Our Current (WRAcc) Fitness:

calculate_fitness(population_batch, data_batch)

This is one massive, parallel, vectorized operation on the GPU.

It calculates all 55 fitness scores (per permutation) in a few milliseconds.

A New (WKG) Fitness (Calling KRIMP): To get the fitness for one single chromosome, our Python script would have to:

Decode the chromosome (CPU).

Use that rule to filter our 6385-sample dataset (X_real_cpu) and create a new, smaller "subgroup dataset" (CPU).

Save this new subgroup dataset to a temporary file on disk (e.g., temp_subgroup.dat).

Call the external KRIMP executable to build a code table for just this subgroup: ./krimp -f temp_subgroup.dat -build -o ct_subgroup

Call KRIMP again to compress the subgroup using the global code table (which we'd have to build once at the start): ./krimp -f temp_subgroup.dat -compress -ct ct_global

Read the resulting compressed sizes from both runs from disk.

Calculate Fitness = L(G | CT_D) - L(G | CT_G).

...and now repeat that 54 more times for the rest of the population.

...and now repeat that 300 times (for each generation).

The Verdict
This would be impossibly slow.

The overhead of starting an external C++ program, writing to disk, and reading from disk 110 times (2 calls * 55 chromosomes) per generation would mean a single 300-generation restart would take hours or days, not 3 minutes.

The DSSD paper itself confirms this. In their experiments (Table 6 & 7, page 235), they state that WKG was "the most demanding of all, and turned out infeasible on CAL500 and Mammals". For the one dataset it did run on (Adult-EMM), it took 1339 minutes (22 hours) for a single run, whereas our WRAcc-based approach on a much larger dataset is doing many restarts within 10 minutes.

Recommendation
This is a classic "research vs. engineering" tradeoff.

WKG is a more complex and "pure" quality measure from a data-compression standpoint.

WRAcc is a simpler, faster proxy that is vectorizable on a GPU.

The best approach is to separate the concerns, which is exactly what we just did:

Fast Search (GA): Use the GPU-friendly WRAcc in simple_ga_array.py to find good quality rules quickly.

Rigorous Analysis (Post-processing): Use the Cover Redundancy (CR) metric in gather_results.py to check if the set of rules we found is diverse and not redundant.

This combination gives us the best of both worlds: high-speed search and rigorous post-analysis. We should stick with our current plan of implementing Cover Redundancy in gather_results.py and not try to implement WKG in the GA.